Add quick installation demo video and synchronize doc and video (#1393)
keptn/keptn.github.io: content/docs/install/helm-install/index.md

weight: 40
---

Keptn is installed from a Helm chart using the Helm CLI.
You must install the [Helm CLI](https://helm.sh)
before attempting to install Keptn.

You should also install the [Keptn CLI](../cli-install)
before installing Keptn although this is optional.
It is possible to do most of what you need to do on modern releases of Keptn without the Keptn CLI

> but the CLI provides additional functionality that is useful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but the CLI provides additional functionality that is useful, such as uploading [SLIs and SLOs](../../concepts/quality_gates/) definitions.
```

Author: done

After installing Keptn,

> If you install the Keptn CLI,

Author: Yup, done.

you must [authenticate the Keptn CLI](../authenticate-cli-bridge/#authenticate-keptn-cli)
to Keptn after installing Keptn. 

Keptn consists of a **Control Plane** and an **Execution Plane**.

* The **Control Plane** is the minimum set of components that are required

>   to run a Keptn instance  and to manage projects, stages, and services;

Author: done

about the Control Plane and the Execution Plane.

You have the following installation options:

* Both the Keptn Control Plane and the Execution Plane
can be installed on an existing Kubernetes cluster that hosts other software
or on a dedicated Keptn Kubernetes cluster.
* The Control Plane and Execution Plane can also be installed on separate Kubernetes clusters;
see [Multi-cluster setup](../multi-cluster) for instructions.
* In a multi-cluster setup, one Keptn Control Plane can support multiple Execution Planes
that are installed on different clusters.

## Install Control Plane

To install the Control Plane, you must do the following:

* Define the Keptn chart repository
* Install Keptn into the `keptn` namespace on the Kubernetes cluster
* Expose the [API gateway](../../concepts/architecture/#api-gateway-nginx) service
  that controls how Keptn communicates with the internet.
  See [Choose access option](../access) for details about all the options
  that are available and how to install and use them.
  You can also do this after installation.
* You may also want to modify the Keptn configuration options.
  This is discussed more below.

### Simple Keptn installation

>   The following commands provide a basic Keptn installation,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The following commands provide a basic Keptn installation.
```

Author: done

>   Because the install command does not expose the API gateway service,
>   we use the **kubectl** command to implement port forwarding,
>   which implements the Kubernetes [LoadBalancer](../access/#option-1-expose-keptn-via-a-loadbalancer):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  We use `kubectl` to forward port 8080 from our local machine to port 8080 on Keptn's API Gateway service in the cluster:
```

Author: Done.  Can't make Keptn possessive without voiding the trademark alas, so I removed the 's.

   ```
   helm repo add keptn https://charts.keptn.sh
   helm install keptn keptn/keptn -n keptn --create-namespace

>    kubectl -n keptn port-forward svc /api-gateway-nginx 8080:8080

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   kubectl -n keptn port-forward svc/api-gateway-nginx 8080:8080
```

Author: done

   ```
   This command is useful for creating a basic Keptn installation
   to use for study or demonstration.

>    It may not be adequate for a production Keptn installation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   It is not adequate for a production Keptn installation.
```

Author: done

   *Watch a video demonstration of a simple installation [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=neAqh4fAz-k).*

### Full Keptn installation

  This section gives some sample commands
  that are appropriate for installing a fully-functional production Keptn instance.
  They use the following options:

  * `--version 0.18.1` -- Keptn release to be installed
     If you do not specify the release, Helm uses the latest release.

   * `--repo=https://charts.keptn.sh` -- the location of the Helm chart
     (rather than using the `helm repo add` command shown above).

>    * `apiGatewayNginx.type=<access-option>` -- this is necessary to access
>      the Keptn Bridge UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * `apiGatewayNginx.type=<access-option>` -- this is necessary to access Keptn.
```

Author: done

     `<*access-option*>` must be `LoadBalancer`, `NodePort`, or `ClusterIP`.
     See [Choose access options](../access/) for details.

>    * `--create-namespace` -- has no effect if the namespace already exists
>      but is specified for safety and consistency with other Helm commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * `--create-namespace` -- creates the `keptn` namespace if it doesn't exist already.
```

Author: done

   * `--set=continuousDelivery.enabled=true` -- install Continuous Delivery support
     for this Keptn instance.

* **Install Keptn control-plane with Continuous Delivery support and exposed through a LoadBalancer**
    ```
    helm install keptn keptn --version 0.18.1 -n keptn --repo=https://charts.keptn.sh --create-namespace --wait --set=continuousDelivery.enabled=true,apiGatewayNginx.type=LoadBalancer
    ```

* **Use a LoadBalancer for api-gateway-nginx**

```
helm upgrade keptn keptn --install -n keptn --create-namespace --wait --version=0.18.1 --repo=https://charts.keptn.sh --set=apiGatewayNginx.type=LoadBalancer
```

* **Install Keptn with an Ingress object**

  If you are already using an [Ingress Controller](../access/#option-3-expose-keptn-via-an-ingress)
  and want to create an ingress object for Keptn,
  you can leverage the ingress section of the Helm chart.

  The Helm chart allows customizing the ingress object to your needs.

>   When `enabled` is set to `true` (by default, `enabled` is set to `false`),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  When `ingress.enabled` is set to `true` (by default, it is set to `false`),
```

Author: done

       ingress.tls=<YOUR_TLS>
  ```

## Confirm Installation

After you issue the **helm install** command,
it takes a couple of minutes for the installation to finish.
Use the following command to watch the progress:

```
kubectl -n keptn get pods
```

> Wait for all the pods in the Keptn namespace to show `Running` under the `STATUS` column
> before proceeding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Wait until all the pods in the Keptn namespace are in `Running` state.
```

Author: done

Use the following command to view all the services that are installed in the Keptn namespace:

```
kubectl -n keptn get services
```

## Access the Keptn Bridge

The [Keptn Bridge](../../0.18.x/bridge) is the graphical user interface

> you can use to manage and view Keptn projects running in your installation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you can use to manage and view Keptn projects running in your instance.
```

Author: done

To access it:

1. Expose the API Gateway NGINX.  This can be done in two ways:

   * Set the `apiGatewayNginx` parameter during installation
   * Issue the following command after installation:
     ```

>      kubectl -n keptn port-forward svc/api-gateway-nginx 8080:80

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     kubectl -n keptn port-forward svc/api-gateway-nginx 8080:8080
```

Author: done

     ```
2. Open a browser window to `localhost:8080`

3. Log into the Keptn Bridge.
   The following commands give you the username and randomly-generated password
   to use if your site uses [Basic Authentication](../../0.18.x/bridge/basic_authentication):

   ```

>    kubectl -n keptn get secret bridge-credentials -o jsonpath-{.data.BASIC_AUTH_USERNAME} | base64 -d echo
>    kubectl -n keptn get secret bridge-credentials -o jsonpath-{.data.BASIC_AUTH_PASSWORD} | base64 -d echo

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   kubectl -n keptn get secret bridge-credentials -o jsonpath-{.data.BASIC_AUTH_USERNAME} | base64 -d
   kubectl -n keptn get secret bridge-credentials -o jsonpath-{.data.BASIC_AUTH_PASSWORD} | base64 -d
```

Author: done

   ```
   You can also use [OpenID Authentication](../../0.18.x/bridge/oauth) to access the Keptn Bridge.

## Install Execution Plane

To install the Execution Plane in the same namespace as the Control Plane,
install a microservice.
For example, the following two commands install the Jmeter and Helm-service microservices:

```
helm install jmeter-service https://github.com/keptn/keptn/releases/download/0.18.1/jmeter-service-0.18.1.tgz -n keptn --create-namespace --wait

> helm install helm-service https://github.com/keptn/keptn/releases/download/0.18.1/helm-service-0.18.1.tgz -n keptn --create-namespace --wait

Reviewer 2: Just a heads-up: The 2 URLs here will change with Keptn 0.19 since helm-service and jmeter-service were moved to the keptn-contrib GH organization now.

Author: https://github.com/keptn/keptn.github.io/issues/1395
